[docs] Add ssg doc for expo router (#22851)
expo/expo: docs/pages/router/static-rendering/index.mdx

<FileTree
  files={[
    'dist/index.html',
    'dist/favicon.ico',
    'dist/logo.png',
    'dist/.well-known/apple-app-site-association',
    'dist/_expo/static/js/index-xxx.js',
    'dist/_expo/static/css/index-xxx.css',
  ]}
/>

> **info** **Web only**: Static assets can be accessed in runtime code using relative paths. For example, the **logo.png** can be accessed at `/logo.png`:

```js app/index.tsx
import { Image } from 'react-native';

export default function Page() {
  return <Image source={{ uri: '/logo.png' }} />;
}
```

## FAQ

### How do I add a custom server?

As of Expo Router v2 there is no prescriptive way to add a custom server. You can use any server you want. However, you will need to handle dynamic routes yourself. You can use the `generateStaticParams` function to generate static HTML files for known routes.

In future, there will be a server API, and a new `web.output` mode which will generate a project that will (amongst other things) support dynamic routes.

## Server-side Rendering

Rendering at request-time (SSR) is not supported in `web.output: 'static'`. This will likely be added in a future version of Expo Router.

> ### Where can I deploy my statically rendered website?

Author: ```suggestion
### Where can I deploy statically rendered websites?
```

## Dynamic Routes

The `static` output will generate HTML files for each route. This means that dynamic routes (`app/[id].tsx`) will not work out of the box. You can generate known routes ahead of time using the `generateStaticParams` function.

```js app/blog/[id].tsx
import { Text } from 'react-native';
import { useLocalSearchParams } from 'expo-router';

export async function generateStaticParams() {
  const posts = await getPosts();
  // Return an array of params to generate static HTML files for.
  // Each entry in the array will be a new page.
  return posts.map(post => ({ id: post.id }));
}

export default function Page() {
  const { id } = useLocalSearchParams();

  return <Text>Post {id}</Text>;
}
```

This will output a file for each post in the `dist` folder. For example, if the `generateStaticParams` method returned `[{ id: "alpha" }, { id: "beta" }]`, the following files would be generated:

<FileTree files={['dist/blog/alpha.html', 'dist/blog/beta.html']} />

## Root HTML

By default, every page is wrapped with some small HTML boilerplate, this is known as the **root HTML**.

> You can customize the root HTML file by creating a **app/+html.tsx** file in your project. This file exports a React component that only ever runs in Node.js, meaning global CSS cannot be imported inside of it. The component will wrap all routes in the **app** directory. This is useful for adding global `<head>` elements or disabling body scrolling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can customize the root HTML file by creating an **app/+html.tsx** file in your project. This file exports a React component that only ever runs in Node.js, which means global CSS cannot be imported inside of it. The component will wrap all routes in the **app** directory. This is useful for adding global `<head>` elements or disabling body scrolling.
```

> > Notice: Global context providers should go in the [Root Layout](/router/advanced/root-layout) component, not the Root HTML component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: Global context providers should go in the [Root Layout](/router/advanced/root-layout) component, not the Root HTML component.
```

export default function Root({ children }: { children: React.ReactNode }) {
  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <head>
        <meta charSet="utf-8" />
        <meta httpEquiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge" />

        {/* 
          This viewport disables scaling which makes the mobile website act more like a native app.
          However this does reduce built-in accessibility. If you want to enable scaling, use this instead:
            <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, viewport-fit=cover" />
        */}
        <meta
          name="viewport"
          content="width=device-width,initial-scale=1,minimum-scale=1,maximum-scale=1.00001,viewport-fit=cover"
        />
        {/* 
          Disable body scrolling on web. This makes ScrollView components work closer to how they do on native. 
          However, body scrolling is often nice to have for mobile web. If you want to enable it, remove this line.
        */}
        <ScrollViewStyleReset />

        {/* Add any additional <head> elements that you want globally available on web... */}
      </head>
      <body>{children}</body>
    </html>
  );
}
```

> - The `children` prop comes with the root `<div id="root" />` tag included inside.
> - The JavaScript scripts are appended after the static render.
> - React Native web styles are statically injected automatically.
> - Global CSS should not be imported in this file, instead use the [Root Layout](/router/advanced/root-layout) component.
> - Browser APIs like `window.location` are not available in this component as it only runs in Node.js during static rendering.

Reviewer: It seems to me that these bullet points are like summary since we are repeating points like: "Global CSS should not be imported in this file, instead use the [Root Layout](/router/advanced/root-layout) component.". Can we add a new subsection or line that this is a summarization (to provide people context of what they are all about).

```suggestion
- The `children` prop comes with the root `<div id="root" />` tag included inside.
- The JavaScript scripts are appended after the static render.
- React Native web styles are statically injected automatically.
- Global CSS should not be imported into this file. Instead, use the [Root Layout](/router/advanced/root-layout) component.
- Browser APIs like `window.location` are unavailable in this component as it only runs in Node.js during static rendering.
```

### `expo-router/html`

The exports from `expo-router/html` are related to the Root HTML component.

> - `ScrollViewStyleReset`: Root style-reset for full-screen React Native web apps with a root `<ScrollView />` should use the following styles to ensure native parity. [Learn more](https://necolas.github.io/react-native-web/docs/setup/#root-element).

Reviewer: I'm not sure why is there a bullet point since there is only element in this whole section.

```suggestion
- `ScrollViewStyleReset`: Root style-reset for full-screen [React Native web apps](https://necolas.github.io/react-native-web/docs/setup/#root-element) with a root `<ScrollView />` should use the following styles to ensure native parity.
```

Applying: https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md#linking-to-other-docs

## Meta Tags

You can add meta tags to your pages with the [`<Head />`](/docs/features/head) module from `expo-router`:

```js app/about.tsx
import Head from 'expo-router/head';
import { Text } from 'react-native';

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <>
      <Head>
        <title>My Blog Website</title>
        <meta name="description" content="This is my blog." />
      </Head>
      <Text>About my blog</Text>
    </>
  );
}
```

> The head elements can be updated dynamically using the same API, but it's useful for SEO to have static head elements rendered ahead of time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The head elements can be updated dynamically using the same API. However, it's useful for SEO to have static head elements rendered ahead of time.
```

## Static Files

> Expo CLI supports a root `/public` directory that will be copied to the `dist` folder during static rendering. This is useful for adding static files like images, fonts, and other assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expo CLI supports a root **public** directory that gets copied to the **dist** folder during static rendering. This is useful for adding static files like images, fonts, and other assets.
```

<FileTree
  files={['public/favicon.ico', 'public/logo.png', 'public/.well-known/apple-app-site-association']}
/>

> These files will be copied to the `dist` folder during static rendering:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These files will be copied to the **dist** folder during static rendering:
```

<FileTree
  files={[
    'dist/index.html',
    'dist/favicon.ico',
    'dist/logo.png',
    'dist/.well-known/apple-app-site-association',
    'dist/_expo/static/js/index-xxx.js',
    'dist/_expo/static/css/index-xxx.css',
  ]}
/>

> Static assets can be accessed in runtime code using relative paths (**WEB ONLY**). For example, the `logo.png` file can be accessed at `/logo.png`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **info** **Web only**: Static assets can be accessed in runtime code using relative paths. For example, the **logo.png** can be accessed at `/logo.png`:
```

May be this can be a callout

```js app/index.tsx
import { Image } from 'react-native';

export default function Page() {
  return <Image source={{ uri: '/logo.png' }} />;
}
```

## FAQ

### How do I add a custom server?

> As of Expo Router v2 there is no prescriptive way to add a custom server. You can use any server you want, but you will need to handle dynamic routes yourself. You can use the `generateStaticParams` function to generate static HTML files for known routes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of Expo Router v2 there is no prescriptive way to add a custom server. You can use any server you want. However, you will need to handle dynamic routes yourself. You can use the `generateStaticParams` function to generate static HTML files for known routes.
```

> In the future there will be a server API and a new `web.output` mode which will generate a project that will--amongst other things--supports dynamic routes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In future, there will be a server API, and a new `web.output` mode which will generate a project that will (amongst other things) support dynamic routes.
```

## Server-side Rendering

Rendering at request-time (SSR) is not supported in `web.output: 'static'`. This will likely be added in a future version of Expo Router.

### Where can I deploy my statically rendered website?

You can deploy your statically rendered website to any static hosting service. Here are some popular options:

- [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/)
- [Cloudflare Pages](https://pages.cloudflare.com/)
- [AWS Amplify](https://aws.amazon.com/amplify/)
- [Vercel](https://vercel.com/)
- [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/)
- [Render](https://render.com/)
- [Surge](https://surge.sh/)

> > Note: You don't need to add Single-Page Application-styled redirects to your static hosting service. The static website is not a single-page application. It is a collection of static HTML files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: You don't need to add Single-Page Application styled redirects to your static hosting service. The static website is not a single-page application. It is a collection of static HTML files.
```
